winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com-exeserver-class.md, before:

---
ms.assetid: 50d31c23-2d15-428d-9db1-e8f3441a6541
title: com:Class (in ExeServer)
description: Defines an ExeServer class registration.
ms.date: 03/29/2017
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# com:Class (in ExeServer)

Defines an ExeServer class registration.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Applications\>](element-applications.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Application\>](element-application.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Extensions\>](element-1-extensions.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:Extension\>](element-com-extension.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:ComServer\>](element-com-comserver.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:ExeServer\>](element-com-exeserver.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<com:Class\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<com:Class
    Id = 'A GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.'
    DisplayName = 'An optional string with a value between 1 and 256 characters in length.'
    EnableOleDefaultHandler = 'An optional boolean value.'
    ProgId = 'An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1.'
    VersionIndependentProgId = 'An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1.'
    AutoConvertTo = 'An optional GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.'
    InsertableObject = 'An optional boolean value.'
    ShortDisplayName = 'An optional string with a value between 1 and 40 characters in length.' >

  <!-- Child elements -->
  ImplementedCategories?,
  Conversion?,
  DataFormats?,
  MiscStatus?,
  Verbs?,
  DefaultIcon?,
  ToolboxBitmap32? 

</com:Class>
```

## Key

`?`    optional (zero or one)

## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required | Default value |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Id** | The Id attribute corresponds to the CLSID (HKCR\CLSID\{MyGuid}). | A GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx. | Yes |
| **DisplayName** | A localizable string corresponding to the default value of the CLSID's key. | An optional string with a value between 1 and 256 characters in length. | No |
| **EnableOleDefaultHandler** | This should be set to true if the default value of the [InprocHandler32](/windows/win32/com/inprochandler32) key is "Ole32.dll". Otherwise it should be omitted. The default value is false. | An optional boolean value. | No |
| **ProgId** | Associates a programmatic identifier (ProgID) with a CLSID. | An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1. | No |
| **VersionIndependentProgId** | Associates a ProgID with a CLSID. This value is used to determine the latest version of an object application. | An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1. | No |
| **AutoConvertTo** | Specifies the automatic conversion of a given class of objects to a new class of objects. | An optional GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx. | No |
| **InsertableObject** | Indicates that this class is insertable. | An optional boolean value. | No |
| **ShortDisplayName** | A short version of the class display name. | An optional string with a value between 1 and 40 characters in length. | No |

## Child elements

| Child element | Description |
|-|-|
| [ImplementedCategories](element-com-exe-implementedcategories.md) | Specifies categories implemented by the class. |
| [Conversion](element-com-exe-conversion.md) | Specifies the read/write permissions of a class. |
| [DataFormats](element-com-exe-dataformats.md) | Specifies the default and main data formats supported. |
| [MiscStatus](element-com-exe-miscstatus.md) | Specifies how to create and display an object. |
| [Verbs](element-com-exe-verbs.md) | Specifies the verbs to be registered for an application. |
| [DefaultIcon](element-com-exe-defaulticon.md) | Provides default icon information for iconic presentations of objects. |
| [ToolboxBitmap32](element-com-exe-toolboxbitmap32.md) | Identifies the module name and resource ID for a 16 x 16 bitmap to use for the face of a toolbar or toolbox button. |

## Remarks

Each **Class** registered under an **ExeServer** must have an **Id** attribute corresponding to the [CLSID](/windows/win32/com/clsid-key-hklm).

## Requirements

|   | Value  |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10` |

Commit message:

Converted element-com-extension.md HTML to Markdown

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com-exeserver-class.md, after:

---
ms.assetid: 50d31c23-2d15-428d-9db1-e8f3441a6541
title: com:Class (in ExeServer)
description: Defines an ExeServer class registration.
ms.date: 03/29/2017
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# com:Class (in ExeServer)

Defines an ExeServer class registration.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Applications\>](element-applications.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Application\>](element-application.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Extensions\>](element-1-extensions.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:Extension\>](element-com-extension.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:ComServer\>](element-com-comserver.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<com:ExeServer\>](element-com-exeserver.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<com:Class\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<com:Class
    Id = 'A GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.'
    DisplayName = 'An optional string with a value between 1 and 256 characters in length.'
    EnableOleDefaultHandler = 'An optional boolean value.'
    ProgId = 'An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1.'
    VersionIndependentProgId = 'An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1.'
    AutoConvertTo = 'An optional GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.'
    InsertableObject = 'An optional boolean value.'
    ShortDisplayName = 'An optional string with a value between 1 and 40 characters in length.' >

  <!-- Child elements -->
  ImplementedCategories?,
  Conversion?,
  DataFormats?,
  MiscStatus?,
  Verbs?,
  DefaultIcon?,
  ToolboxBitmap32? 

</com:Class>
```

## Key

`?`    optional (zero or one)

## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required | Default value |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Id** | The Id attribute corresponds to the CLSID (HKCR\CLSID\{MyGuid}). | A GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx. | Yes |  |
| **DisplayName** | A localizable string corresponding to the default value of the CLSID's key. | An optional string with a value between 1 and 256 characters in length. | No |  |
| **EnableOleDefaultHandler** | This should be set to true if the default value of the [InprocHandler32](/windows/win32/com/inprochandler32) key is "Ole32.dll". Otherwise it should be omitted. The default value is false. | An optional boolean value. | No |  |
| **ProgId** | Associates a programmatic identifier (ProgID) with a CLSID. | An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1. | No |  |
| **VersionIndependentProgId** | Associates a ProgID with a CLSID. This value is used to determine the latest version of an object application. | An optional alphanumeric string separated by a period with a value between 1 and 255 characters in length, e.g. Foo.Bar or Foo.Bar.1. | No |  |
| **AutoConvertTo** | Specifies the automatic conversion of a given class of objects to a new class of objects. | An optional GUID in the form xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx. | No |  |
| **InsertableObject** | Indicates that this class is insertable. | An optional boolean value. | No |  |
| **ShortDisplayName** | A short version of the class display name. | An optional string with a value between 1 and 40 characters in length. | No |  |

### Child elements

| Child element | Description |
|-|-|
| [ImplementedCategories](element-com-exe-implementedcategories.md) | Specifies categories implemented by the class. |
| [Conversion](element-com-exe-conversion.md) | Specifies the read/write permissions of a class. |
| [DataFormats](element-com-exe-dataformats.md) | Specifies the default and main data formats supported. |
| [MiscStatus](element-com-exe-miscstatus.md) | Specifies how to create and display an object. |
| [Verbs](element-com-exe-verbs.md) | Specifies the verbs to be registered for an application. |
| [DefaultIcon](element-com-exe-defaulticon.md) | Provides default icon information for iconic presentations of objects. |
| [ToolboxBitmap32](element-com-exe-toolboxbitmap32.md) | Identifies the module name and resource ID for a 16 x 16 bitmap to use for the face of a toolbar or toolbox button. |

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [com:ExeServer](element-com-exeserver.md) | Registers an ExeServer with one or many class registrations. |

## Remarks

Each **Class** registered under an **ExeServer** must have an **Id** attribute corresponding to the [CLSID](/windows/win32/com/clsid-key-hklm).

## Requirements

|   | Value  |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10` |
