winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-uap4-capability.md, before:

---

ms.assetid: 6997bc14-c33f-4a88-aec1-21c1ddd5a8f2
title: uap4:Capability
description: Declares a capability required by a package.

ms.date: 04/05/2017
ms.topic: reference


keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, desktop, extension 
---

# uap4:Capability

## Description
Declares a capability required by a package.

## Element hierarchy
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-capabilities.md">&lt;Capabilities&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;uap4:Capability&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>

## Syntax
```syntax
<uap4:Capability Name = "offlineMapsManagement" | "userDataTasks"
</uap4:Capability>
```

## Attributes
| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required |
|-----------|-------------|-----------|----------|
| Name | The name of the capability. | This attribute can have one of the following values: <ul><li>offlineMapsManagement</li><li>userDataTasks</li></ul> | Yes |

## Requirements

|   | Value |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/4` |

Commit message:

Converted element-uap4-capability.md HTML to Markdown

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-uap4-capability.md, after:

---
ms.assetid: 6997bc14-c33f-4a88-aec1-21c1ddd5a8f2
title: uap4:Capability
description: Declares a capability required by a package.
ms.date: 04/05/2017
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, desktop, extension 
---

# uap4:Capability

Declares a capability required by a package.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Capabilities\>](element-capabilities.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<uap4:Capability\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<uap4:Capability
  Name = 'A string that can have one of the following values: "offlineMapsManagement" or "userDataTasks".' />
```

## Attributes and elements

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required | Default value |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **Name** | The name of the capability. | A string that can have one of the following values: *offlineMapsManagement* or *userDataTasks*. | Yes |  |

### Child elements

None.

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [Capability](element-capabilities.md) | Declares the access to protected user resources that the package requires. |

## Requirements

| Item | Value |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/4` |
