winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com-comserver.md, before:

---
author: laurenhughes
ms.assetid: 62d02a56-5e34-4b0a-93d5-f4fbec23e0bb
title: com:ComServer
description: Declares a package extension point of type windows.comServer.
ms.author: lahugh
ms.date: 03/29/2017
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: winrt-reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# com:ComServer

## Description
Declares a package extension point of type **windows.comServer**. The **comServer** extension may include four types of registrations: **ExeServer**, **SurrogateServer**, **ProgId**, or **TreatAsClass**.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-applications.md">&lt;Applications&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-application.md">&lt;Application&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-1-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-extension.md">&lt;com:Extension&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;com:ComServer&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>


## Syntax
```syntax
<ComServer>
  <!-- Child elements -->
  ( com:ExeServer{0,1000},
  com:SurrogateServer{0,1000},
  com:ProgId{0,10000},
  com:TreatAsClass{0,10000}
  )
</ComServer>
```

## Key
`{}`   specific range of occurrences

## Child Elements

| Child Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [ExeServer](element-com-exeserver.md) | Registers an ExeServer with one or many class registrations. |
| [SurrogateServer](element-com-surrogateserver.md) | Registers an SurrogateServer with one or many class registrations. |
| [ProgId](element-com-progid.md) | A programmatic identifier (ProgID) that can be associated with a CLSID. |
| [TreatAsClass](element-com-treatasclass.md) | A registration that corresponds to a CLSID registration with the TreatAs subkey. | 


## Remarks
In multi-application packages, it's important to place the COM server registration under the correct Applications/Application manifest element, because COM server processes will run with the identity of the ancestor Applications/Application element.

For multi-application packages:
- If an [AppID](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms682359.aspx) key contains an [AppId](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms688754.aspx) value, place all COM server registrations associated with the AppID key under the Applications/Application manifest element with the **Id** attribute that matches the **ApplicationId** value.
- If the [AppId](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms688754.aspx) is not specified in the package's private registry hive, you must group COM servers manually by application. 

COM servers have two main behaviors:
- Activate As Package (AAP) behavior is the default behavior of packaged COM registrations in the manifest. The COM server runs with the default session token with package and application claims added.
- Activate As Activator (AAA) is the default behavior when COM servers do not specify the [AppId](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms688754.aspx). AAA means that COM launches one instance of the COM server process for each distinct client token. For example, if Word and Excel both activate a PowerPoint COM server registered in the package's private registry hive as AAA, they would get separate instances of PowerPoint (one with Word's identity and one with Excel's identity).

Based on the behaviors described above, adding an [AppId](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms688754.aspx) to the package for the first time may change the instancing behavior of COM servers.

> [!NOTE]
> Any registrations in **comServer** that depend on another registration (e.g. a **ProgId** references a **Class**) must be in the same **comServer** extension. 

It is possible to have multiple **comServer** extensions under the Applications/Application element, but that is neither necessary nor recommended.

## Examples

## Requirements

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Namespace</p></td>
<td><p>http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

Update description of ComServer element
Packaged COM registrations in the manifest can only get Activate As Package behavior, but the current description makes it sound like that is just the default and that developers can opt into Activate As Activator behavior.  I modified the description to make it clear that Activate As Package is the only option while still explaining how it diverges from other activation behaviors.

Also, the description suggests using the ApplicationId value on the AppID registry key to select an Applications/Application element for the ComServer.  While this is correct, the ApplicationId value is new in the Anniversary Update, so few COM servers will have it in their registration.  Given that Store policy only allows multi-application packages with special approval, I think it is better to avoid confusing developers with details that rarely apply to them.  The description of when and how to use the ApplicationId value is better suited for the AppID key's MSDN page: https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms682359.aspx.

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com-comserver.md, after:

---
author: laurenhughes
ms.assetid: 62d02a56-5e34-4b0a-93d5-f4fbec23e0bb
title: com:ComServer
description: Declares a package extension point of type windows.comServer.
ms.author: lahugh
ms.date: 03/29/2017
ms.topic: reference
ms.prod: windows
ms.technology: winrt-reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# com:ComServer

## Description
Declares a package extension point of type **windows.comServer**. The **comServer** extension may include four types of registrations: **ExeServer**, **SurrogateServer**, **ProgId**, or **TreatAsClass**.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-applications.md">&lt;Applications&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-application.md">&lt;Application&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-1-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-extension.md">&lt;com:Extension&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;com:ComServer&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>


## Syntax
```syntax
<ComServer>
  <!-- Child elements -->
  ( com:ExeServer{0,1000},
  com:SurrogateServer{0,1000},
  com:ProgId{0,10000},
  com:TreatAsClass{0,10000}
  )
</ComServer>
```

## Key
`{}`   specific range of occurrences

## Child Elements

| Child Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [ExeServer](element-com-exeserver.md) | Registers an ExeServer with one or many class registrations. |
| [SurrogateServer](element-com-surrogateserver.md) | Registers an SurrogateServer with one or many class registrations. |
| [ProgId](element-com-progid.md) | A programmatic identifier (ProgID) that can be associated with a CLSID. |
| [TreatAsClass](element-com-treatasclass.md) | A registration that corresponds to a CLSID registration with the TreatAs subkey. | 


## Remarks
In multi-application packages, it's important to place the COM server registration under the correct Applications/Application manifest element, because COM server processes will run with the identity of the ancestor Applications/Application element.

COM servers registered in the manifest always get Activate As Package (AAP) behavior, which means the COM server runs with the user session default token with package and application claims added. This is different from the default activation behavior of classically registered COM servers, in which the COM server runs with the client's token. For most applications, this difference will not be noticeable because clients typically run with the user session default token. Other activation behaviors, such as [RunAs]( https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/desktop/ms680046.aspx), are not supported.

> [!NOTE]
> Any registrations in **comServer** that depend on another registration (e.g. a **ProgId** references a **Class**) must be in the same **comServer** extension. 

It is possible to have multiple **comServer** extensions under the Applications/Application element, but that is neither necessary nor recommended.

## Examples

## Requirements

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Namespace</p></td>
<td><p>http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
