winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-virtualization-filesystemwritevirtualization.md, before:

---
description: Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for a package.
title: virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization


keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, package manifest
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/18/2022
ms.custom: 
---

# virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization

Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for a package. If disabled, other apps can read or write the same file system entries as your package. 

> [!NOTE]
> This element requires the  **unvirtualizedResources** [restricted capability](/windows/uwp/packaging/app-capability-declarations#restricted-capabilities).

## Element hierarchy

<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-properties.md">&lt;Properties&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>

## Syntax

``` xml
<virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization>
    virtualization:ExcludedDirectories
</virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization>
```
## Attributes and Elements

### Attributes

None.

### Child Elements

| Child Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [virtualization:ExcludedDirectories](element-virtualization-excludeddirectories.md) | Specifies the list of directories that are excluded from file system virtualization. |

### Parent Elements

| Parent Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [Properties](element-properties.md) | Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users.  |

## Remarks

This element requires the **unvirtualizedResources** [restricted capability](/windows/uwp/packaging/app-capability-declarations#restricted-capabilities).

## Requirements

| Namespace | Manifest Path | 
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| virtualization | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/virtualization/windows10` |

Commit message:

Adding note about allowed file system and registry locations and versioning

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-virtualization-filesystemwritevirtualization.md, after:

---
description: Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for a package.
title: virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization


keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, package manifest
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/18/2022
ms.custom: 
---

# virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization

Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for a package. If disabled, other apps can read or write the same file system entries as your package. 

> [!NOTE]
> This element requires the  **unvirtualizedResources** [restricted capability](/windows/uwp/packaging/app-capability-declarations#restricted-capabilities).

## Element hierarchy

<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-properties.md">&lt;Properties&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>

## Syntax

``` xml
<virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization>
    virtualization:ExcludedDirectories
</virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization>
```
## Attributes and Elements

### Attributes

None.

### Child Elements

| Child Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [virtualization:ExcludedDirectories](element-virtualization-excludeddirectories.md) | Specifies the list of directories that are excluded from file system virtualization. |

### Parent Elements

| Parent Element | Description |
|---------------|-------------|
| [Properties](element-properties.md) | Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users.  |

## Remarks

This element requires the **unvirtualizedResources** [restricted capability](/windows/uwp/packaging/app-capability-declarations#restricted-capabilities).

You can only declare file system locations under the %USERPROFILE%\AppData directory to be excluded from virtualization. This schema and syntax were introduced in the Windows 10, version 2004. Previously, in the Windows 10, version 1903 release, similar functionality was introduced with the [desktop6:FileSystemWriteVirtualization](schemas\appxpackage\uapmanifestschema\element-desktop6-filesystemwritevirtualization.md) element. If an application includes both syntaxes for disabling file system virtualization, the old declaration will be used on pre-2004 OS versions while the new declaration will be used on 2004 and later OS versions.

## Requirements

| Namespace | Manifest Path | 
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| virtualization | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/virtualization/windows10` |
