winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-desktop7-logo.md, before:

﻿---
title: desktop7:Logo
description: A path to a file that contains an image (desktop7).
ms.date: 08/12/2022
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, desktop, extension 
ms.custom: 19H1
---

# desktop7:Logo

A path to a file that contains an image.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Applications\>](element-applications.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Application\>](element-application.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Extensions\>](element-1-extensions.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<uap:Extension\>](element-uap-extension.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<uap:FileTypeAssociation\>](element-uap-filetypeassociation.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<desktop7:Logo\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<desktop7:Logo
  ResourceId = 'A string with a value between 1 and 30 characters in length that consists of alphanumeric, period, and dash characters.' />
```

## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required | Default value |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **ResourceId** | The string table ID of the string Infotip string within the resource module. | A string with a value between 1 and 30 characters in length that consists of alphanumeric, period, and dash characters. | Yes |  |

### Child elements

None

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [ControlPanelItem](element-desktop7-controlpanelitem.md) | Registers an extension as a control panel item. |  

## Requirements

| Item  | Value  |
|--|--|
| Namespace | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/desktop/windows10/7` |

Commit message:

Fixing the description of desktop7:Logo

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-desktop7-logo.md, after:

﻿---
title: desktop7:Logo
description: A path to a file that contains an image (desktop7).
ms.date: 08/12/2022
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, desktop, extension 
ms.custom: 19H1
---

# desktop7:Logo

A path to a file that contains an image.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Applications\>](element-applications.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Application\>](element-application.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<Extensions\>](element-1-extensions.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<uap:Extension\>](element-uap-extension.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[\<uap:FileTypeAssociation\>](element-uap-filetypeassociation.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<desktop7:Logo\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<desktop7:Logo
  ResourceId = 'An optional integer value.' >
A string with a value between 1 and 256 characters in length that ends with ".jpg", ".png", ".jpeg", ".ico", ".dll", or ".exe", case-insensitive, that can't contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *. In this string, the / and \ characters can't be the first or last characters. Also, the string can contain / or \ but not both.
<desktop7:Logo>
```



## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required | Default value |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| **ResourceId** | The resource ID of the logo. | 'An optional integer value.' | Yes |  |

### Child elements

None

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [ControlPanelItem](element-desktop7-controlpanelitem.md) | Registers an extension as a control panel item. |  

## Requirements

| Item  | Value  |
|--|--|
| Namespace | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/desktop/windows10/7` |
