winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-properties.md, before:

---
description: Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users (Windows 10).
Search.Product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
title: Properties (Windows 10)
ms.assetid: accc712c-c7b9-45e1-ba02-836abacbd9b5
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, package manifest
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/05/2017
---

# Properties (Windows 10)

Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users.

> [!NOTE]
> You may get an error if the manifest elements DisplayName or Description contain characters disallowed by the Windows firewall; namely `|` and `all`, due to which Windows fails to create the AppContainer profile for the package. Use this reference for [troubleshooting](/windows/win32/appxpkg/troubleshooting) if you get an error.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<Properties\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<Properties>

  <!-- Child elements -->
  Framework?
  & DisplayName
  & PublisherDisplayName
  & Description?
  & Logo
  & ResourcePackage?
  & uap:SupportedUsers?
  & uap6:AllowExecution?
  & desktop6:FileSystemWriteVirtualization?
  & desktop6:RegistryWriteVirtualization?
  & rescap6:ModificationPackage?
  & uap10:AllowExternalContent?
  & uap10:PackageIntegrity?
  & heap:HeapPolicy?
  )

</Properties>
```

### Key

`?`   optional (zero or one)
`&`   interleave connector (may occur in any order)

## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

None.

### Child elements

| Child element | Description |
|-|-|
| [Description](element-description.md) | A friendly description that can be displayed to users. |
| [DisplayName](element-displayname.md) | A friendly name that can be displayed to users. |
| [Framework](element-framework.md) | Indicates whether the package is a framework package; that is, a package that can be used by other packages. Its value is *false* by default. You should not specify a value for it unless you are creating a framework. |
| [Logo](element-logo.md) | A path to a file that contains an image. |
| [PublisherDisplayName](element-publisherdisplayname.md) | A friendly name for the publisher that can be displayed to users. |
| [ResourcePackage](element-resourcepackage.md) | Indicates whether the package is a resource package. A resource package can be used by other packages. Its value is *false* by default. You should not specify a value for it unless you are creating a resource. |
| [uap:SupportedUsers](element-uap-supportedusers.md) | Indicates whether or not the package is multi-user aware. This setting is used at install time to determine whether the package can be installed on the system. |
| [uap6:AllowExecution](element-uap6-allowexecution.md) | A boolean value that specifies whether packages with executable are allowed to execute. By default, this value is true. |
| [desktop6:FileSystemWriteVirtualization](element-desktop6-filesystemwritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for your desktop application. |
| [desktop6:RegistryWriteVirtualization](element-desktop6-registrywritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the registry is enabled for your desktop application. |
| [rescap6:ModificationPackage](element-rescap6-modificationpackage.md) | Declares that the current package is a modification package for an enterprise application. |
| [uap10:AllowExternalContent](element-uap10-allowexternalcontent.md) | Enables your package manifest to reference content outside the package, in a specific location on disk. See [Grant package identity by packaging with external location](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/grant-identity-to-nonpackaged-apps). |
| [uap10:PackageIntegrity](element-uap10-packageintegrity.md) | Specifies the level of run time package integrity checks and remediation for the package. |

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [Package](element-package.md) | Defines the root element of an app package manifest. The manifest describes the structure and capabilities of the software to the system. |

## Examples

The following example is taken from the package manifest of one of the SDK samples.

```xml
<Properties>
  <DisplayName>ApplicationData SDK Sample</DisplayName>
  <PublisherDisplayName>Microsoft Corporation</PublisherDisplayName>
  <Description>The application data sample.</Description>
  <Logo>images\storeLogo-sdk.png</Logo>
</Properties>
```

## See also

- [Upload app packages](/windows/uwp/publish/upload-app-packages)
- [Create your app by reserving a name](/windows/uwp/publish/create-your-app-by-reserving-a-name)

## Requirements

| Item | Value |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/foundation/windows10` |

Commit message:

Adding references/links to already documented schema elements that were added to the Properties element.

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-properties.md, after:

---
description: Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users (Windows 10).
Search.Product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
title: Properties (Windows 10)
ms.assetid: accc712c-c7b9-45e1-ba02-836abacbd9b5
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, package manifest
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/05/2017
---

# Properties (Windows 10)

Defines additional metadata about the package including attributes that describe how the package appears to users.

> [!NOTE]
> You may get an error if the manifest elements DisplayName or Description contain characters disallowed by the Windows firewall; namely `|` and `all`, due to which Windows fails to create the AppContainer profile for the package. Use this reference for [troubleshooting](/windows/win32/appxpkg/troubleshooting) if you get an error.

## Element hierarchy

[\<Package\>](element-package.md)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**\<Properties\>**

## Syntax

```xml
<Properties>

  <!-- Child elements -->
  Framework?
  & DisplayName
  & PublisherDisplayName
  & Description?
  & Logo
  & ResourcePackage?
  & uap:SupportedUsers?
  & uap6:AllowExecution?
  & desktop6:FileSystemWriteVirtualization?
  & desktop6:RegistryWriteVirtualization?
  & virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization?
  & virtualization:RegistryWriteVirtualization?
  & rescap6:ModificationPackage?
  & uap10:AllowExternalContent?
  & uap10:PackageIntegrity?
  & uap13:AutoUpdate?
  & uap15:DependencyTarget?
  & heap:HeapPolicy?
  )

</Properties>
```

### Key

`?`   optional (zero or one)
`&`   interleave connector (may occur in any order)

## Attributes and elements

### Attributes

None.

### Child elements

| Child element | Description |
|-|-|
| [Description](element-description.md) | A friendly description that can be displayed to users. |
| [DisplayName](element-displayname.md) | A friendly name that can be displayed to users. |
| [Framework](element-framework.md) | Indicates whether the package is a framework package; that is, a package that can be used by other packages. Its value is *false* by default. You should not specify a value for it unless you are creating a framework. |
| [Logo](element-logo.md) | A path to a file that contains an image. |
| [PublisherDisplayName](element-publisherdisplayname.md) | A friendly name for the publisher that can be displayed to users. |
| [ResourcePackage](element-resourcepackage.md) | Indicates whether the package is a resource package. A resource package can be used by other packages. Its value is *false* by default. You should not specify a value for it unless you are creating a resource. |
| [uap:SupportedUsers](element-uap-supportedusers.md) | Indicates whether or not the package is multi-user aware. This setting is used at install time to determine whether the package can be installed on the system. |
| [uap6:AllowExecution](element-uap6-allowexecution.md) | A boolean value that specifies whether packages with executable are allowed to execute. By default, this value is true. |
| [desktop6:FileSystemWriteVirtualization](element-desktop6-filesystemwritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for your desktop application. |
| [desktop6:RegistryWriteVirtualization](element-desktop6-registrywritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the registry is enabled for your desktop application. |
| [virtualization:FileSystemWriteVirtualization](element-virtualization-filesystemwritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the file system is enabled for a package. |
| [virtualization:RegistryWriteVirtualization](element-virtualization-registrywritevirtualization.md) | Indicates whether virtualization for the registry for your package. |
| [rescap6:ModificationPackage](element-rescap6-modificationpackage.md) | Declares that the current package is a modification package for an enterprise application. |
| [uap10:AllowExternalContent](element-uap10-allowexternalcontent.md) | Enables your package manifest to reference content outside the package, in a specific location on disk. See [Grant package identity by packaging with external location](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/grant-identity-to-nonpackaged-apps). |
| [uap10:PackageIntegrity](element-uap10-packageintegrity.md) | Specifies the level of run time package integrity checks and remediation for the package. |
| [uap13:AutoUpdate](element-uap13-autoupdate.md) | Specifies automatic update configuration for the app. |
| [uap15:DependencyTarget](element-uap15-dependencytarget.md) | Allows a main package manifest to specify whether the package is a valid target for [dynamic dependencies](/windows/apps/desktop/modernize/framework-packages/framework-packages-overview). |
| [heap:HeapPolicy](element-heap-heappolicy.md) | Allows packaged apps to request a heap profile that has performance and behavior characteristics consistent with that of the legacy NT heap. |

### Parent elements

| Parent element | Description |
|-|-|
| [Package](element-package.md) | Defines the root element of an app package manifest. The manifest describes the structure and capabilities of the software to the system. |

## Examples

The following example is taken from the package manifest of one of the SDK samples.

```xml
<Properties>
  <DisplayName>ApplicationData SDK Sample</DisplayName>
  <PublisherDisplayName>Microsoft Corporation</PublisherDisplayName>
  <Description>The application data sample.</Description>
  <Logo>images\storeLogo-sdk.png</Logo>
</Properties>
```

## See also

- [Upload app packages](/windows/uwp/publish/upload-app-packages)
- [Create your app by reserving a name](/windows/uwp/publish/create-your-app-by-reserving-a-name)

## Requirements

| Item | Value |
|--|--|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/foundation/windows10` |
