winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com2-package-proxystubdll.md, before:

---

title: com2:ProxyStubDll (in Package/Extensions)
description: Specifies the path and processor architecture of a ProxyStub DLL (in Package/Extensions).

ms.date: 10/10/2017
ms.topic: reference


keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---


# com2:ProxyStubDll (in Package/Extensions)

## Description
Specifies the path and processor architecture of a ProxyStub DLL.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-extension.md">&lt;Extension&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-package-cominterface.md">&lt;ComInterface&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-package-proxystub.md">&lt;com:ProxyStub&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;com2:ProxyStubDll&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>


## Syntax
```syntax
<com2:ProxyStubDll Path                  = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
                   ProcessorArchitecture = A string value, one of the following: x86 or x64 >
```

## Key
`?`    optional (zero or one)  

## Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required |
|-----------|-------------|-----------|----------|
| Path | A relative path to the .dll file in the app package. | A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: &lt;, &gt;, :, ", &#124;, ?, or *. | Yes |
| ProcessorArchitecture | The processor architecture of the ProxyStub registration. | A string value, one of the following: x86 or x64 | No |

## Examples

## Requirements
|               |  Value                                                           |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10/2` |

Commit message:

Updating allowed values for Com2 Proxystubdll ProcessorArchitecture

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-com2-package-proxystubdll.md, after:

---

title: com2:ProxyStubDll (in Package/Extensions)
description: Specifies the path and processor architecture of a ProxyStub DLL (in Package/Extensions).

ms.date: 10/10/2017
ms.topic: reference


keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---


# com2:ProxyStubDll (in Package/Extensions)

## Description
Specifies the path and processor architecture of a ProxyStub DLL.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-extension.md">&lt;Extension&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-package-cominterface.md">&lt;ComInterface&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl>
<dt><a href="element-com-package-proxystub.md">&lt;com:ProxyStub&gt;</a></dt>
<dd><b>&lt;com2:ProxyStubDll&gt;</b></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>


## Syntax
```syntax
<com2:ProxyStubDll Path                  = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
                   ProcessorArchitecture = "x86" | "x64" | "arm" | "arm64" | "x86a64" >
```

## Key
`?`    optional (zero or one)  

## Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required |
|-----------|-------------|-----------|----------|
| Path | A relative path to the .dll file in the app package. | A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: &lt;, &gt;, :, ", &#124;, ?, or *. | Yes |
| ProcessorArchitecture | The processor architecture of the ProxyStub registration. | One of the following values: "x86" , "x64" , "arm" , "arm64" , "x86a64" | No |

## Examples

## Requirements
|               |  Value                                                           |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Namespace** | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/com/windows10/2` |
