winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-uap17-extension.md, before:

---
title: uap17:Extension
description: Declares an extensibility point for the app. (uap17:Extension).
ms.date: 10/12/2023
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, windows 11, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# uap17:Extension

## Description

Declares an extensibility point for the app.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl><dt><a href = "element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl><dt><a href = "element-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dd><b>&lt;uap17:Extension&gt;</b></dd></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>

## Syntax
```syntax
<uap17:Extension     Category = "windows.packageExtensionHost" | "windows.packageExtension"
    desktop11:AppLifecycleBehavior = "systemManaged" | "unmanaged"
    Executable? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that must end with ".exe" and cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
    EntryPoint? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot start or end with a whitespace character.
    RuntimeType? = A string between 1 and 255 characters in length that cannot start or end with a period or contain these characters: <, >, :, ", /, \, |, ?, or *.
    StartPage? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
    ResourceGroup? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap10:TrustLevel? = "appContainer" | "mediumIL"
    uap10:RuntimeBehavior? = "windowsApp" | "packagedClassicApp" | "win32App"
    uap10:HostId? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap10:Parameters? = A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    uap11:Id? = A string between 1 and 255 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    uap11:Subsystem? = "console" | "windows"
    uap11:SupportsMultipleInstances? = Boolean.
    uap11:ResourceGroup? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap11:CurrentDirectoryPath? = A string that cannot contain these characters: <, >, |, ?, or *. >
    uap11:Parameters? = A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    desktop7:CompatMode? = "classic" | "modern"
    desktop7:Scope? = "machine" | "user"
>
<!-- Child elements -->
  PackageExtensionHost
  PackageExtension
</uap17:Extension>
```

## Key
`?`    optional (zero or one) 


## Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required |
| -----------| -------------| -----------| ----------|
| Category | The type of package extensibility point. | One of the following values: "windows.packageExtensionHost" , "windows.packageExtension"| Yes |
| desktop11:AppLifecycleBehavior | Allows an app to override the lifecycle behavior associated with the runtime behavior for the extension. Apps or extensions with a **RuntimeBehavior** of "windowsApp" implicitly have **AppLifecycleBehavior** of "systemManaged". Apps or extensions with **RuntimeBehavior** of "packagedClassicApp" or "win32App" implicitly have **AppLifecycleBehavior** of "unmanaged" | One of the following values: "systemManaged" , "unmanaged".| No |
| Executable | The default launch executable. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that must end with ".exe" and cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", ,, ?, or *.| No |
| EntryPoint | The activatable class ID. | A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot start or end with a whitespace character.| No |
| RuntimeType | The runtime provider. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 255 characters in length that cannot start or end with a period or contain these characters: <, >, :, ", /, \, ,, ?, or *.| No |
| StartPage | The web page that handles the extensibility point. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", ,, ?, or *.| No |
| ResourceGroup | An optional tag used to group extension activations together for resource management purposes (for example, CPU and memory). | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap10:TrustLevel | Specifies the trust level of the extension. | One of the following values: "appContainer" , "mediumIL"| No |
| uap10:RuntimeBehavior | Specifies the runtime behavior of an extension. | One of the following values: "windowsApp" , "packagedClassicApp" , "win32App"| No |
| uap10:HostId | Specifies the ID of the host runtime for the extension. | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap10:Parameters | Contains command line parameters to pass to the extension. Only supported for desktop apps.| A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| uap11:Id | An identifier for the extension. The ID must be unique for all extensions in a package. | A string between 1 and 255 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| uap11:Subsystem | This attribute is inherited from the base extension syntax. Other than syntactic validation, this value is ignored. | One of the following values: "console" , "windows"| No |
| uap11:SupportsMultipleInstances | Specifies whether instances should run in different processes. The default value is false. | Boolean.| No |
| uap11:ResourceGroup | A tag that you can use to group extension activations together for resource management purposes (for example, CPU and memory). The value you can set ResourceGroup is free-form and flexible. | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap11:CurrentDirectoryPath | Specifies the initial directory when the application process is launched. | One of the following values: A string that cannot contain these characters: <, >, ,, ?, or *. >| No |
| uap11:Parameters | Contains command line parameters to pass to the extension. Only supported for desktop apps.| A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| desktop7:CompatMode | Specifies whether this extension's information is registered with Windows in classic ways (e.g. unpackaged apps register types with COM via the registry) or in new more scoped ways. The default value is "modern". CompatMode="classic" requires the *Microsoft.classicAppCompat_8wekyb3d8bbwe* capability. | One of the following values: "classic" , "modern"| No |
| desktop7:Scope | Specifies whether the registrations are only visible to other applications running as a user who has this package registered (user), or whether they are visible to all users and services on the machine (machine). The default value is "user". Scope="machine" requires the *Microsoft.classicAppCompatElevated_8wekyb3d8bbwe* capability. | One of the following values: "machine" , "user"| No |


## Child Elements

| Element | Description |
| -----------| -------------|
| [PackageExtensionHost](element-uap17-packageextensionhost.md) | Declares an app extensibility point of type windows.appExtensionHost. |
| [PackageExtension](element-uap17-packageextension.md) | Declares an app extensibility point of type windows.appExtension. |

## Remarks



## Requirements
| Prefix | Value |
| ---------------| -------------------------------------------------------------|
| uap17 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/17` |
| uap10 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/10` |
| uap11 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/11` |
| desktop7 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/desktop/windows10/7` |

Commit message:

Adding more info linking to the macros topic (#524)

winrt-related-src/schemas/appxpackage/uapmanifestschema/element-uap17-extension.md, after:

---
title: uap17:Extension
description: Declares an extensibility point for the app. (uap17:Extension).
ms.date: 10/12/2023
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, windows 11, uwp, schema, manifest, com
---

# uap17:Extension

## Description

Declares an extensibility point for the app.

## Element Hierarchy
<dl><dt><a href = "element-package.md">&lt;Package&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dl><dt><a href = "element-extensions.md">&lt;Extensions&gt;</a></dt>
<dd>
<dd><b>&lt;uap17:Extension&gt;</b></dd></dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>

## Syntax
```syntax
<uap17:Extension     Category = "windows.packageExtensionHost" | "windows.packageExtension"
    desktop11:AppLifecycleBehavior = "systemManaged" | "unmanaged"
    Executable? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that must end with ".exe" and cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
    EntryPoint? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot start or end with a whitespace character.
    RuntimeType? = A string between 1 and 255 characters in length that cannot start or end with a period or contain these characters: <, >, :, ", /, \, |, ?, or *.
    StartPage? = A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", |, ?, or *.
    ResourceGroup? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap10:TrustLevel? = "appContainer" | "mediumIL"
    uap10:RuntimeBehavior? = "windowsApp" | "packagedClassicApp" | "win32App"
    uap10:HostId? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap10:Parameters? = A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    uap11:Id? = A string between 1 and 255 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    uap11:Subsystem? = "console" | "windows"
    uap11:SupportsMultipleInstances? = Boolean.
    uap11:ResourceGroup? = An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.
    uap11:CurrentDirectoryPath? = A string that cannot contain these characters: <, >, |, ?, or *. >
    uap11:Parameters? = A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.
    desktop7:CompatMode? = "classic" | "modern"
    desktop7:Scope? = "machine" | "user"
>
<!-- Child elements -->
  PackageExtensionHost
  PackageExtension
</uap17:Extension>
```

## Key
`?`    optional (zero or one) 


## Attributes

| Attribute | Description | Data type | Required |
| -----------| -------------| -----------| ----------|
| Category | The type of package extensibility point. | One of the following values: "windows.packageExtensionHost" , "windows.packageExtension"| Yes |
| desktop11:AppLifecycleBehavior | Allows an app to override the lifecycle behavior associated with the runtime behavior for the extension. Apps or extensions with a **RuntimeBehavior** of "windowsApp" implicitly have **AppLifecycleBehavior** of "systemManaged". Apps or extensions with **RuntimeBehavior** of "packagedClassicApp" or "win32App" implicitly have **AppLifecycleBehavior** of "unmanaged" | One of the following values: "systemManaged" , "unmanaged".| No |
| Executable | The default launch executable. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that must end with ".exe" and cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", ,, ?, or *.| No |
| EntryPoint | The activatable class ID. | A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot start or end with a whitespace character.| No |
| RuntimeType | The runtime provider. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 255 characters in length that cannot start or end with a period or contain these characters: <, >, :, ", /, \, ,, ?, or *.| No |
| StartPage | The web page that handles the extensibility point. | One of the following values: A string between 1 and 256 characters in length that cannot contain these characters: <, >, :, ", ,, ?, or *.| No |
| ResourceGroup | An optional tag used to group extension activations together for resource management purposes (for example, CPU and memory). | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap10:TrustLevel | Specifies the trust level of the extension. | One of the following values: "appContainer" , "mediumIL"| No |
| uap10:RuntimeBehavior | Specifies the runtime behavior of an extension. | One of the following values: "windowsApp" , "packagedClassicApp" , "win32App"| No |
| uap10:HostId | Specifies the ID of the host runtime for the extension. | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap10:Parameters | Contains command line parameters to pass to the extension. Only supported for desktop apps.| A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| uap11:Id | An identifier for the extension. The ID must be unique for all extensions in a package. | A string between 1 and 255 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| uap11:Subsystem | This attribute is inherited from the base extension syntax. Other than syntactic validation, this value is ignored. | One of the following values: "console" , "windows"| No |
| uap11:SupportsMultipleInstances | Specifies whether instances should run in different processes. The default value is false. | Boolean.| No |
| uap11:ResourceGroup | A tag that you can use to group extension activations together for resource management purposes (for example, CPU and memory). The value you can set ResourceGroup is free-form and flexible. | An alphanumeric string between 1 and 255 characters in length. Must begin with an alphabetic character.| No |
| uap11:CurrentDirectoryPath | Specifies the initial directory when the application process is launched. This attribute supports macros. For more info, see [Macros in the package manifest schema](./macros.md). | One of the following values: A string that cannot contain these characters: <, >, ,, ?, or *. >| No |
| uap11:Parameters | Contains command line parameters to pass to the extension. Only supported for desktop apps. This attribute supports macros. For more info, see [Macros in the package manifest schema](./macros.md). | A string between 1 and 32767 characters in length with a non-whitespace character at its beginning and end.| No |
| desktop7:CompatMode | Specifies whether this extension's information is registered with Windows in classic ways (e.g. unpackaged apps register types with COM via the registry) or in new more scoped ways. The default value is "modern". CompatMode="classic" requires the *Microsoft.classicAppCompat_8wekyb3d8bbwe* capability. | One of the following values: "classic" , "modern"| No |
| desktop7:Scope | Specifies whether the registrations are only visible to other applications running as a user who has this package registered (user), or whether they are visible to all users and services on the machine (machine). The default value is "user". Scope="machine" requires the *Microsoft.classicAppCompatElevated_8wekyb3d8bbwe* capability. | One of the following values: "machine" , "user"| No |


## Child Elements

| Element | Description |
| -----------| -------------|
| [PackageExtensionHost](element-uap17-packageextensionhost.md) | Declares an app extensibility point of type windows.appExtensionHost. |
| [PackageExtension](element-uap17-packageextension.md) | Declares an app extensibility point of type windows.appExtension. |

## Remarks



## Requirements
| Prefix | Value |
| ---------------| -------------------------------------------------------------|
| uap17 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/17` |
| uap10 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/10` |
| uap11 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/uap/windows10/11` |
| desktop7 | `http://schemas.microsoft.com/appx/manifest/desktop/windows10/7` |
