winrt-related-src/schemas/voicecommands/vcd-xml-schema-portal.md, before:

---
title: Voice command (VCD) schemas
description: XML markup elements and attributes used in Voice Command Definition (VCD) files to specify recognition constraints.
Search.Product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.assetid: 6b945294-6e25-4ddf-bf46-63003ece1d5a
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, cortana, voice commands, vcd


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/05/2017
---

# Voice command (VCD) schemas


## Purpose

Reference documentation for the XML markup elements and attributes used in Voice Command Definition (VCD) files to specify recognition constraints.


## In this section

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Topic</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><a href="voice-command-elements-and-attributes-1-1.md">VCD elements and attributes v1.1</a> </p></td>
<td><p>Version 1.1 of the voice command schema used in VCD files to specify recognition constraints.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><a href="voice-command-elements-and-attributes-1-2.md">VCD elements and attributes v1.2</a> </p></td>
<td><p>Version 1.2 of the voice command schema used in VCD files to specify recognition constraints.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
 

## Developer audience


These XML schemas are designed for use by all app developers.

Commit message:

Adding Cortana deprecation boilerplate to the voice command schema docs

winrt-related-src/schemas/voicecommands/vcd-xml-schema-portal.md, after:

---
title: Voice command (VCD) schemas
description: XML markup elements and attributes used in Voice Command Definition (VCD) files to specify recognition constraints.
Search.Product: eADQiWindows 10XVcnh
ms.assetid: 6b945294-6e25-4ddf-bf46-63003ece1d5a
keywords: windows 10, uwp, schema, cortana, voice commands, vcd


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 04/05/2017
---

# Voice command (VCD) schemas

> [!NOTE]
> The Cortana Skills Kit for consumer and enterprise, and the skills built on these platforms, have been deprecated.

## Purpose

Reference documentation for the XML markup elements and attributes used in Voice Command Definition (VCD) files to specify recognition constraints.


## In this section

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Topic</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><a href="voice-command-elements-and-attributes-1-1.md">VCD elements and attributes v1.1</a> </p></td>
<td><p>Version 1.1 of the voice command schema used in VCD files to specify recognition constraints.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><a href="voice-command-elements-and-attributes-1-2.md">VCD elements and attributes v1.2</a> </p></td>
<td><p>Version 1.2 of the voice command schema used in VCD files to specify recognition constraints.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
 

## Developer audience


These XML schemas are designed for use by all app developers.
