winrt-related-src/midl-3/predefined-attributes.md, before:

---

description: There are a number of pre-defined custom attributes that allow you to control the name and IID for compiler-synthesized interfaces.
title: Predefined attributes (MIDL 3.0)

ms.date: 04/23/2018
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, winrt, api, reference, idl, midl, 3.0, 3, midl3
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Predefined attributes (MIDL 3.0)
There are a number of pre-defined custom attributes that allow you to control the name and interface identifier (IID) for compiler-synthesized interfaces. These attributes allow you to control the versioning and binary API of your
class at a fine-grained level.

If you're a component developer and/or a library author, then you may wish to use these attributes to ensure that your components remain binary-stable from one version to the next.

If you're an application developer, then in general you won't need to use these attributes because you'll recompile your application after revisioning your types.

## The `[allowforweb]` attribute
For details on the use and purpose of the `allowforweb` attribute, see the [AllowForWebAttribute class](/uwp/api/windows.foundation.metadata.allowforwebattribute).

## The `[constructor_name]` attribute
The `constructor_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the
factory interface that contains the constructor members. See [Synthesizing interfaces](synthesizing-interfaces.md) for more info about factory interfaces.

> [!NOTE]
> A factory interface is only applicable to a sealed class with non-default constructors, or to an unsealed class with default and/or non-default constructors.

In the example below, the protected **Block** constructor is placed in the
**IBlockFactory** interface, and that interface has the specified IID.

```idl
[constructor_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockFactory", 07110532-4f59-4f3b-9ce5-25784c430507)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    protected Block();
    ...
}
```

As a result, when your class description doesn't otherwise reference an
interface, but when one is needed to implement the class, the MIDL 3.0
compiler synthesizes and adds interfaces, as necessary.

## The `[contract]` attribute
Do not use the `contract` attribute in your own APIs; it only has meaning for built-in Windows APIs.

The `contract` attribute specifies the name and version of the Windows 10 [API contract](/uwp/extension-sdks/device-families-overview) in which the attributed type and/or member was first introduced into Windows (hence it is not meaningful for APIs not delivered as part of Windows). The attribute takes the form `[contract(ContractName, ContractVersion)]`, and it appears before the item to which it applies.

## The `[method_name]` attribute
Every Windows Runtime interface has an equivalent Application Binary
Interface (ABI) interface. The ABI interface requires that all members
have unique names. There are two cases in MIDL 3.0 where members either
don't have a name, or don't have a unique name.

- constructors, and
- two or more overloaded methods.

In these cases, the MIDL 3.0 compiler synthesizes a unique
member name, as necessary.

By default, the compiler assigns constructor methods the names &lt;*className*&gt;, &lt;*className*&gt;2, &lt;*className*&gt;3, and so on for the equivalent methods in the ABI interface. In other words, the smallest unused integer numeral suffix (increasing from 2) is added to make the constructor method name unique.

Similarly, for overloaded methods, for the first method in a series of overloads (in lexical order), the compiler uses the original method name for the equivalent ABI interface method. Subsequent overloads are made unique by adding to the original name the smallest unused integer numeral suffix (increasing from 2).

For example, the following IDL declares three overloads of **DoWork**, and two overloads of a different method named **DoWork3**.

```idl
void DoWork(Int32 x);
void DoWork3(Int32 x);
void DoWork(Int32 x, Int32 y);
void DoWork(Int32 x, Int32 y, Int32 z);
void DoWork3(Int32 x, Int32 y);
```

By default (since the name **DoWork3** is already taken), the compiler gives to the three overloads of **DoWork** the names
- **DoWork**
- **DoWork2**
- **DoWork4**.

**DoWork3** is *not* a **DoWork** overload. By default, the compiler gives to the two overloads of **DoWork3** the names
- **DoWork3**
- **DoWork32**.

In vtable order, then, the functions will appear as

- **DoWork**
- **DoWork3**
- **DoWork2**
- **DoWork4**
- **DoWork32**

You can override the compiler's default name assignment using the
`method_name` attribute.

In this next example, we instruct the compiler to use the name
**CreateInstance** for the **Block** default constructor member.

```idl
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    [method_name("CreateInstance")] protected Block();
    ...
}
```

## The `[static_name]` attribute
The `static_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the interface
that contains static members of the class.

In this next example, the `static_name` attribute applied to the runtimeclass
specifies the name and IID of the interface that contains all static
members of the class that are not otherwise assigned to an interface. So, **LineHeightProperty**, **LineStackingStrategyProperty**, **MarginProperty**, and **TextAlignmentProperty** are members of the
**IBlockStatics** interface.

However, **HorizontalTextAlignmentProperty** is a member of the
**IBlockStatics2** interface, because of the `static_name` attribute
encompassing that member.

```idl
[static_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockStatics", f86a8c34-8d18-4c53-aebd-91e610a5e010)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty LineHeightProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty LineStackingStrategyProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty MarginProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty TextAlignmentProperty{ get; };

    [static_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockStatics2", af01a4d6-03e3-4cee-9b02-2bfc308b27a9)]
    {
        static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty HorizontalTextAlignmentProperty{ get; };
    }
    ...
}
```

## The `[interface_name]` attribute
The `interface_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the
interface that contains the instance members of the class. By default, the compiler assigns interface names using the same unique numbering algorithm that it uses for [methods](#the-method_name-attribute).

In the example below, the `interface_name` attribute applied to the
runtimeclass specifies the name and IID of the interface that contains
all instance members of the class that are not otherwise assigned to an
interface. So, **LineHeight**, **LineStackingStrategy**, **Margin**, and **TextAlignment** are members of the **IBlock** interface.

However, **HorizontalTextAlignment** is a member of the **IBlock2** interface,
because of the `interface_name` attribute encompassing that member.

```idl
[interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlock", 4bce0016-dd47-4350-8cb0-e171600ac896)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    Double LineHeight;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.LineStackingStrategy LineStackingStrategy;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.Thickness Margin;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.TextAlignment TextAlignment;

    [interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlock2", 5ec7bdf3-1333-4a92-8318-6caedc12ef89)]
    {
        Windows.UI.Xaml.TextAlignment HorizontalTextAlignment;
    }
    ...
}
```

You can also use the `interface_name` attribute to force the generation of an interface. In the example below, **StateTriggerBase** has no need for **IStateTriggerBase**, and it's only the presence of the `interface_name` attribute that causes it to be generated.

```idl
[interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.IStateTriggerBase", 48b20698-af06-466c-8052-93666dde0e49)]
unsealed runtimeclass StateTriggerBase
{
    protected void SetActive(Boolean IsActive);
};
```

## The `[default_interface]` attribute
The `default_interface` attribute is used to force the generation of a default interface where one wouldn't otherwise be generated. In the example below, **StateTriggerBase** has no need for a default interface, and it's only the presence of the `default_interface` attribute that causes one (named **IStateTriggerBase**) to be generated.

```idl
[default_interface]
unsealed runtimeclass StateTriggerBase
{
    protected void SetActive(Boolean IsActive);
};
```

As a result, when your class description doesn't otherwise reference an
interface, but when one is needed to implement the class, the MIDL 3.0
compiler synthesizes and adds interfaces, as necessary.

## The `[default]` attribute
If you don't specify a default interface, then the MIDL 3.0 compiler chooses the first instance interface. To override this selection, insert The `default` attribute before the interface that you want to be the default interface.

```idl
// Declaring an external interface as the default
runtimeclass C : [default]I { ... }

// Declaring a specific exclusiveto interface as the default.
// This is very unusual.
runtimeclass C
{
    ...

    [default][interface_name(...)]
    {
        ...
    }
}
```

Commit message:

an extra detail that came up today in the bash (#160)

winrt-related-src/midl-3/predefined-attributes.md, after:

---

description: There are a number of pre-defined custom attributes that allow you to control the name and IID for compiler-synthesized interfaces.
title: Predefined attributes (MIDL 3.0)

ms.date: 04/23/2018
ms.topic: reference
keywords: windows 10, uwp, winrt, api, reference, idl, midl, 3.0, 3, midl3
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Predefined attributes (MIDL 3.0)
There are a number of pre-defined custom attributes that allow you to control the name and interface identifier (IID) for compiler-synthesized interfaces. These attributes allow you to control the versioning and binary API of your
class at a fine-grained level.

If you're a component developer and/or a library author, then you may wish to use these attributes to ensure that your components remain binary-stable from one version to the next.

If you're an application developer, then in general you won't need to use these attributes because you'll recompile your application after revisioning your types.

## The `[allowforweb]` attribute
For details on the use and purpose of the `allowforweb` attribute, see the [AllowForWebAttribute class](/uwp/api/windows.foundation.metadata.allowforwebattribute).

## The `[constructor_name]` attribute
The `constructor_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the
factory interface that contains the constructor members. See [Synthesizing interfaces](synthesizing-interfaces.md) for more info about factory interfaces.

> [!NOTE]
> A factory interface is only applicable to a sealed class with non-default constructors, or to an unsealed class with default and/or non-default constructors.

In the example below, the protected **Block** constructor is placed in the
**IBlockFactory** interface, and that interface has the specified IID.

```idl
[constructor_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockFactory", 07110532-4f59-4f3b-9ce5-25784c430507)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    protected Block();
    ...
}
```

As a result, when your class description doesn't otherwise reference an
interface, but when one is needed to implement the class, the MIDL 3.0
compiler synthesizes and adds interfaces, as necessary.

## The `[contract]` attribute
Do not use the `contract` attribute in your own APIs; it only has meaning for built-in Windows APIs.

The `contract` attribute specifies the name and version of the Windows 10 [API contract](/uwp/extension-sdks/device-families-overview) in which the attributed type and/or member was first introduced into Windows (hence it is not meaningful for APIs not delivered as part of Windows). The attribute takes the form `[contract(ContractName, ContractVersion)]`, and it appears before the item to which it applies.

## The `[method_name]` attribute
Every Windows Runtime interface has an equivalent Application Binary
Interface (ABI) interface. The ABI interface requires that all members
have unique names. There are two cases in MIDL 3.0 where members either
don't have a name, or don't have a unique name.

- constructors, and
- two or more overloaded methods.

In these cases, the MIDL 3.0 compiler synthesizes a unique
member name, as necessary.

By default, the compiler assigns constructor methods the names &lt;*className*&gt;, &lt;*className*&gt;2, &lt;*className*&gt;3, and so on for the equivalent methods in the ABI interface. In other words, the smallest unused integer numeral suffix (increasing from 2) is added to make the constructor method name unique.

Similarly, for overloaded methods, for the first method in a series of overloads (in lexical order), the compiler uses the original method name for the equivalent ABI interface method. Subsequent overloads are made unique by adding to the original name the smallest unused integer numeral suffix (increasing from 2).

For example, the following IDL declares three overloads of **DoWork**, and two overloads of a different method named **DoWork3**.

```idl
void DoWork(Int32 x);
void DoWork3(Int32 x);
void DoWork(Int32 x, Int32 y);
void DoWork(Int32 x, Int32 y, Int32 z);
void DoWork3(Int32 x, Int32 y);
```

By default (since the name **DoWork3** is already taken), the compiler gives to the three overloads of **DoWork** the names
- **DoWork**
- **DoWork2**
- **DoWork4**.

**DoWork3** is *not* a **DoWork** overload. By default, the compiler gives to the two overloads of **DoWork3** the names
- **DoWork3**
- **DoWork32**.

In vtable order, then, the functions will appear as

- **DoWork**
- **DoWork3**
- **DoWork2**
- **DoWork4**
- **DoWork32**

You can override the compiler's default name assignment using the
`method_name` attribute.

In this next example, we instruct the compiler to use the name
**CreateInstance** for the **Block** default constructor member.

```idl
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    [method_name("CreateInstance")] protected Block();
    ...
}
```

## The `[static_name]` attribute
The `static_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the interface
that contains static members of the class.

In this next example, the `static_name` attribute applied to the runtimeclass
specifies the name and IID of the interface that contains all static
members of the class that are not otherwise assigned to an interface. So, **LineHeightProperty**, **LineStackingStrategyProperty**, **MarginProperty**, and **TextAlignmentProperty** are members of the
**IBlockStatics** interface.

However, **HorizontalTextAlignmentProperty** is a member of the
**IBlockStatics2** interface, because of the `static_name` attribute
encompassing that member.

```idl
[static_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockStatics", f86a8c34-8d18-4c53-aebd-91e610a5e010)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty LineHeightProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty LineStackingStrategyProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty MarginProperty{ get; };
    static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty TextAlignmentProperty{ get; };

    [static_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlockStatics2", af01a4d6-03e3-4cee-9b02-2bfc308b27a9)]
    {
        static Windows.UI.Xaml.DependencyProperty HorizontalTextAlignmentProperty{ get; };
    }
    ...
}
```

## The `[interface_name]` attribute
The `interface_name` attribute specifies the name and IID of the
interface that contains the instance members of the class. By default, the compiler assigns interface names using the same unique numbering algorithm that it uses for [methods](#the-method_name-attribute).

In the example below, the `interface_name` attribute applied to the
runtimeclass specifies the name and IID of the interface that contains
all instance members of the class that are not otherwise assigned to an
interface. So, **LineHeight**, **LineStackingStrategy**, **Margin**, and **TextAlignment** are members of the **IBlock** interface.

However, **HorizontalTextAlignment** is a member of the **IBlock2** interface,
because of the `interface_name` attribute encompassing that member.

```idl
[interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlock", 4bce0016-dd47-4350-8cb0-e171600ac896)]
...
unsealed runtimeclass Block : Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.TextElement
{
    ...
    Double LineHeight;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.LineStackingStrategy LineStackingStrategy;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.Thickness Margin;
    Windows.UI.Xaml.TextAlignment TextAlignment;

    [interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.Documents.IBlock2", 5ec7bdf3-1333-4a92-8318-6caedc12ef89)]
    {
        Windows.UI.Xaml.TextAlignment HorizontalTextAlignment;
    }
    ...
}
```

You can also use the `interface_name` attribute to force the generation of an interface. In the example below, **StateTriggerBase** has no need for **IStateTriggerBase**, and it's only the presence of the `interface_name` attribute that causes it to be generated.

```idl
[interface_name("Windows.UI.Xaml.IStateTriggerBase", 48b20698-af06-466c-8052-93666dde0e49)]
unsealed runtimeclass StateTriggerBase
{
    protected void SetActive(Boolean IsActive);
};
```

## The `[default_interface]` attribute

The `default_interface` attribute is used to force the generation of a default interface where one wouldn't otherwise be generated. In the example below, **StateTriggerBase** has no need for a default interface (because it has no public nonstatic members), so it's only the presence of the `default_interface` attribute that causes one (named **IStateTriggerBase**) to be generated.

```idl
[default_interface]
unsealed runtimeclass StateTriggerBase
{
    protected void SetActive(Boolean IsActive);
};
```

As a result, when your class description doesn't otherwise reference an interface, but when one is needed to implement the class, the MIDL 3.0 compiler synthesizes and adds interfaces, as necessary.

If you use the `default_interface` unnecessarily, then MIDL 3.0 generates an extra *empty* interface, and makes that the default.

## The `[default]` attribute
If you don't specify a default interface, then the MIDL 3.0 compiler chooses the first instance interface. To override this selection, insert The `default` attribute before the interface that you want to be the default interface.

```idl
// Declaring an external interface as the default
runtimeclass C : [default]I { ... }

// Declaring a specific exclusiveto interface as the default.
// This is very unusual.
runtimeclass C
{
    ...

    [default][interface_name(...)]
    {
        ...
    }
}
```
