winrt-related-src/cpp-ref-for-winrt/delegate.md, before:

---
author: stevewhims
description: A type that you can use to declare a custom delegate type for your own events.
title: winrt::delegate struct template (C++/WinRT)
dev_langs: ["C++"]
ms.author: stwhi
ms.date: 04/24/2018

ms.topic: "language-reference"


keywords: windows 10, uwp, standard, c++, cpp, winrt, projection, api, reference, delegate, handler
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.workload: ["cplusplus"]
---

# winrt::delegate struct template (C++/WinRT)
A type that you can use to declare a custom delegate type for your own events in cases where you need to support passing non-Windows Runtime types as delegate parameters. The **delegate** type has no ABI (it has no interface for use across application binaries), so its use case is when you're both authoring and consuming an event within the same project. For more info about handling events, and code examples, see [Handle events by using delegates in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/handle-events).

## Syntax
```cppwinrt
template <typename... T>
struct delegate : Windows::Foundation::IUnknown
```

### Template parameters
`typename... T`
A variadic template parameter pack containing the types of the parameters that the delegate is passed when it's called.

## Requirements
**Minimum supported SDK:** Windows SDK version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803)

**Namespace:** winrt

**Header** %WindowsSdkDir%Include\<WindowsTargetPlatformVersion>\cppwinrt\winrt\base.h (included by default)

## Constructors
|Constructor|Description|
|------------|-----------------|
|[delegate::delegate constructor](#delegatedelegate-constructor)|Initializes a new instance of the **delegate** struct from the input data.|

## Member operators
|Operator|Description| 
|------------|-----------------|
|[delegate::operator() (function call operator)](#delegateoperator-function-call-operator)|Invokes the delegate represented by the **delegate** object with the provided arguments.|

## delegate::delegate constructor
Initializes a new instance of the **delegate** struct from the input data.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
delegate(std::nullptr_t = nullptr) noexcept;

template <typename L>
delegate(L lHandler);

template <typename F>
delegate(F* fHandler);

template <typename O, typename M>
delegate(O* object, M method);
```

### Template parameters
`typename L`
A lambda function type.

`typename F`
A free function type.

`typename O`
An object type.

`typename M`
A pointer-to-member-function type.

### Parameters
`lHandler`
A lambda function, which will handle the event.

`fHandler`
A pointer-to-free-function, which will handle the event.

`object`
A pointer to an object, one of whose member functions will handle the event.

`method`
A pointer-to-member-function, which will handle the event.

## delegate::operator() (function call operator)
Invokes the delegate represented by the **delegate** object with the provided arguments.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
void operator()(T const&... args) const
```

## See also
* [winrt namespace](winrt.md)
* [Handle events by using delegates in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/handle-events)
* [winrt::event struct template](event.md)

Commit message:

adding more details and links (#97)

winrt-related-src/cpp-ref-for-winrt/delegate.md, after:

---
author: stevewhims
description: A type that you can use to declare a custom delegate type for your own events.
title: winrt::delegate struct template (C++/WinRT)
dev_langs: ["C++"]
ms.author: stwhi
ms.date: 04/24/2018
ms.topic: "language-reference"
keywords: windows 10, uwp, standard, c++, cpp, winrt, projection, api, reference, delegate, handler
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.workload: ["cplusplus"]
---

# winrt::delegate struct template (C++/WinRT)
A type that you can use to declare a custom delegate type for your own events. **delegate** supports any number of parameters, and they are not limited to Windows Runtime types.

The **delegate** type has no ABI (it has no interface for use across application binaries), so its use case is when you're both authoring and consuming an event within the same project. For more details of that scenario, see [Parameterized delegates, simple signals, and callbacks within a project](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-events#parameterized-delegates-simple-signals-and-callbacks-within-a-project).

For more info about handling events, and code examples, see [Handle events by using delegates in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/handle-events).

## Syntax
```cppwinrt
template <typename... T>
struct delegate : Windows::Foundation::IUnknown
```

### Template parameters
`typename... T`
A variadic template parameter pack containing the types of the parameters that the delegate is passed when it's called.

## Requirements
**Minimum supported SDK:** Windows SDK version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803)

**Namespace:** winrt

**Header** %WindowsSdkDir%Include\<WindowsTargetPlatformVersion>\cppwinrt\winrt\base.h (included by default)

## Constructors
|Constructor|Description|
|------------|-----------------|
|[delegate::delegate constructor](#delegatedelegate-constructor)|Initializes a new instance of the **delegate** struct from the input data.|

## Member operators
|Operator|Description| 
|------------|-----------------|
|[delegate::operator() (function call operator)](#delegateoperator-function-call-operator)|Invokes the delegate represented by the **delegate** object with the provided arguments.|

## delegate::delegate constructor
Initializes a new instance of the **delegate** struct from the input data.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
delegate(std::nullptr_t = nullptr) noexcept;

template <typename L>
delegate(L lHandler);

template <typename F>
delegate(F* fHandler);

template <typename O, typename M>
delegate(O* object, M method);
```

### Template parameters
`typename L`
A lambda function type.

`typename F`
A free function type.

`typename O`
An object type.

`typename M`
A pointer-to-member-function type.

### Parameters
`lHandler`
A lambda function, which will handle the event.

`fHandler`
A pointer-to-free-function, which will handle the event.

`object`
A pointer to an object, one of whose member functions will handle the event.

`method`
A pointer-to-member-function, which will handle the event.

## delegate::operator() (function call operator)
Invokes the delegate represented by the **delegate** object with the provided arguments.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
void operator()(T const&... args) const
```

## See also
* [winrt namespace](winrt.md)
* [Author events in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-events)
* [Handle events by using delegates in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/handle-events)
* [winrt::event struct template](event.md)
