winrt-related-src/cpp-ref-for-winrt/implements.md, before:

---

description: A base struct template that implements one or more Windows Runtime interfaces on behalf of a derived type.
title: winrt::implements struct template (C++/WinRT)
dev_langs: ["C++"]

ms.date: 03/19/2019
ms.topic: "language-reference"
keywords: windows 10, uwp, standard, c++, cpp, winrt, projection, api, reference, implement, interface
ms.workload: ["cplusplus"]
---

# winrt::implements struct template (C++/WinRT)

This is the base from which your own [C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/intro-to-using-cpp-with-winrt) implementations (of runtime classes and activation factories) directly or indirectly derive. It implements one or more Windows Runtime interfaces (which you specify to it as type parameters), and it also provides efficient implementations of [IUnknown](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown), [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable), [IAgileObject](/windows/win32/api/objidlbase/nn-objidlbase-iagileobject), [IWeakReferenceSource](/windows/desktop/api/weakreference/nn-weakreference-iweakreferencesource), and others.

> [!NOTE]
> For more info about deriving from this type, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

## Extension points on winrt::implements

**winrt::implements** has extension points that allow you to defer destruction of your implementation types, to safely query during destruction, and to hook the entry into and exit from your projected methods. Here are the names of the extension points, together with links to details and code examples.

- **final_release**. See [Deferred destruction](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#deferred-destruction) and [Safe queries during destruction](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#safe-queries-during-destruction).
- **abi_enter**, **abi_exit**, and **abi_guard**. See [Method entry and exit hooks](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#method-entry-and-exit-hooks).

## Marker types
The **implements** struct template supports several marker types (such as [non_agile](non-agile.md), [no_weak_ref](no-weak-ref.md), and [static_lifetime](static-lifetime.md) for factories). These marker types override default behavior. We expect that these will be only rarely used; the defaults are sufficient for almost all cases. A marker type can appear anywhere in the interface list, which is the variadic parameter pack.

This first example applies when you derive directly from **implements**.

```cppwinrt
struct MyImplementation: implements<MyImplementation, IFrameworkViewSource, no_weak_ref>
{
    ...
}
```

This next example is for when you're authoring a runtime class.

```cppwinrt
struct BookSku : BookSkuT<BookSku, no_weak_ref>
{
    ...
}
```

## Syntax
```cppwinrt
template <typename D, typename... I>
struct implements
```

### Template parameters
`typename D`
Your derived type name.

`typename... I`
Any number of interfaces to implement.

### Example
```cppwinrt
// App.cpp
...
struct App : implements<App, IFrameworkViewSource>
{
    IFrameworkView CreateView()
    {
        return ...
    }
}
...
```

## Requirements
**Minimum supported SDK:** Windows SDK version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803)

**Namespace:** winrt

**Header:** %WindowsSdkDir%Include\<WindowsTargetPlatformVersion>\cppwinrt\winrt\base.h (included by default)

## Member functions
|Function|Description|
|------------|-----------------|
|[implements::AddRef function](#implementsaddref-function)|Increments the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.|
|[implements::find_inspectable function](#implementsfind_inspectable-function)|TBD|
|[implements::find_interface function](#implementsfind_interface-function)|The pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier; doesn't call **AddRef**.|
|[implements::get_local_iids function](#implementsget_local_iids-function)|Retrieves a two-element tuple containing the identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object.|
|[implements::get_strong function](#implementsget_strong-function)|Retrieves a strong reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.|
|[implements::get_weak function](#implementsget_weak-function)|Retrieves a weak reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.|
|[implements::QueryInterface function](#implementsqueryinterface-function)|Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier; calls **AddRef**.|
|[implements::Release function](#implementsrelease-function)|Decrements the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.|

## Member operators
|Operator|Description| 
|------------|-----------------|
|[implements::operator Windows::Foundation::IInspectable](#implementsoperator-windowsfoundationiinspectable)|Converts the **implements** object to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**.|

## implements::AddRef function
Increments the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
unsigned long __stdcall AddRef() noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::find_inspectable function
Retrieves the pointer to the [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable) interface implemented by the **implements** object. Does not call **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns. This function allows you to pass the **implements** object to a function that expects an **IInspectable**.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
::IInspectable* find_inspectable() const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
The pointer to the [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable) interface implemented by the **implements** object.

## implements::find_interface function
Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier. Does not call **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
void* find_interface(winrt::guid const& id) const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
The pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier.

## implements::get_local_iids function
Retrieves a two-element tuple containing the identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
std::pair<uint32_t, const winrt::guid*> get_local_iids() const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
A two-element tuple containing the identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object.

## implements::get_strong function
Retrieves a strong reference to the **winrt::implements** object's *this* pointer. See [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references). Because **get_strong** is a member function of the **winrt::implements** struct template, you can call it only from an object that directly or indirectly derives from **winrt::implements**, such as a C++/WinRT object. For more info about deriving from **winrt::implements**, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
protected:
    winrt::com_ptr<D> get_strong() noexcept;
```

### Return value
A strong reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.

## implements::get_weak function
Retrieves a weak reference to the **winrt::implements** object's *this* pointer. See [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references). Because **get_weak** is a member function of the **winrt::implements** struct template, you can call it only from an object that directly or indirectly derives from **winrt::implements**, such as a C++/WinRT object. For more info about deriving from **winrt::implements**, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
protected:
    winrt::weak_ref<D> get_weak() noexcept;
```

### Return value
A [**weak_ref**](weak-ref.md) object representing a weak reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.

## implements::QueryInterface function
Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier. Calls **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
HRESULT __stdcall QueryInterface(winrt::guid const& id, void** object) noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::Release function
Decrements the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
unsigned long __stdcall Release() noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::operator Windows::Foundation::IInspectable
Converts the **implements** object to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**. This operator allows you to pass the **implements** object to a function that expects an **IInspectable**.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
operator winrt::Windows::Foundation::IInspectable() const noexcept;
```

### Return value
The **implements** object converted to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**.

## See also 
* [winrt namespace](winrt.md)
* [winrt::weak_ref struct template](weak-ref.md)
* [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis)
* [Extension points for your implementation types](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors)
* [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references)

Commit message:

Write documentation for cloaked<T> marker template (#487)
* Write documentation for cloaked<T> marker template

* Fix formatting

* Update implements.md

* Update winrt.md

* Update cloaked.md

---------

Co-authored-by: Steven White <31261191+stevewhims@users.noreply.github.com>

winrt-related-src/cpp-ref-for-winrt/implements.md, after:

---
description: A base struct template that implements one or more Windows Runtime interfaces on behalf of a derived type.
title: winrt::implements struct template (C++/WinRT)
dev_langs: ["C++"]
ms.date: 03/19/2019
ms.topic: "language-reference"
keywords: windows 10, uwp, standard, c++, cpp, winrt, projection, api, reference, implement, interface
ms.workload: ["cplusplus"]
---

# winrt::implements struct template (C++/WinRT)

This is the base from which your own [C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/intro-to-using-cpp-with-winrt) implementations (of runtime classes and activation factories) directly or indirectly derive. It implements one or more Windows Runtime interfaces (which you specify to it as type parameters), and it also provides efficient implementations of [IUnknown](/windows/win32/api/unknwn/nn-unknwn-iunknown), [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable), [IAgileObject](/windows/win32/api/objidlbase/nn-objidlbase-iagileobject), [IWeakReferenceSource](/windows/desktop/api/weakreference/nn-weakreference-iweakreferencesource), and others.

> [!NOTE]
> For more info about deriving from this type, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

## Extension points on winrt::implements

**winrt::implements** has extension points that allow you to defer destruction of your implementation types, to safely query during destruction, and to hook the entry into and exit from your projected methods. Here are the names of the extension points, together with links to details and code examples.

- **final_release**. See [Deferred destruction](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#deferred-destruction) and [Safe queries during destruction](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#safe-queries-during-destruction).
- **abi_enter**, **abi_exit**, and **abi_guard**. See [Method entry and exit hooks](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors#method-entry-and-exit-hooks).

## Marker types
The **implements** struct template supports several marker types (such as [non_agile](non-agile.md), [no_weak_ref](no-weak-ref.md), and [static_lifetime](static-lifetime.md) for factories). These marker types override default behavior. We expect that these will be only rarely used; the defaults are sufficient for almost all cases. A marker type can appear anywhere in the interface list, which is the variadic parameter pack.

This first example applies when you derive directly from **implements**.

```cppwinrt
struct MyImplementation: implements<MyImplementation, IFrameworkViewSource, no_weak_ref>
{
    ...
}
```

This next example is for when you're authoring a runtime class.

```cppwinrt
struct BookSku : BookSkuT<BookSku, no_weak_ref>
{
    ...
}
```

## Syntax
```cppwinrt
template <typename D, typename... I>
struct implements
```

### Template parameters
`typename D`
Your derived type name.

`typename... I`
Any number of interfaces to implement.

By default, interfaces that derive from **IInspectable** are reported by the implementation of the **IInspectable::GetIids** method. Use the [`cloaked` marker template](cloaked.md) to suppress that.

### Example

```cppwinrt
// App.cpp
...
struct App : implements<App, IFrameworkViewSource>
{
    IFrameworkView CreateView()
    {
        return ...
    }
}
...
```

## Requirements
**Minimum supported SDK:** Windows SDK version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803)

**Namespace:** winrt

**Header:** %WindowsSdkDir%Include\<WindowsTargetPlatformVersion>\cppwinrt\winrt\base.h (included by default)

## Member functions
|Function|Description|
|------------|-----------------|
|[implements::AddRef function](#implementsaddref-function)|Increments the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.|
|[implements::find_inspectable function](#implementsfind_inspectable-function)|TBD|
|[implements::find_interface function](#implementsfind_interface-function)|The pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier; doesn't call **AddRef**.|
|[implements::get_local_iids function](#implementsget_local_iids-function)|Retrieves a two-element tuple containing the identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object.|
|[implements::get_strong function](#implementsget_strong-function)|Retrieves a strong reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.|
|[implements::get_weak function](#implementsget_weak-function)|Retrieves a weak reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.|
|[implements::QueryInterface function](#implementsqueryinterface-function)|Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier; calls **AddRef**.|
|[implements::Release function](#implementsrelease-function)|Decrements the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.|

## Member operators
|Operator|Description| 
|------------|-----------------|
|[implements::operator Windows::Foundation::IInspectable](#implementsoperator-windowsfoundationiinspectable)|Converts the **implements** object to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**.|

## implements::AddRef function
Increments the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
unsigned long __stdcall AddRef() noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::find_inspectable function
Retrieves the pointer to the [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable) interface implemented by the **implements** object. Does not call **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns. This function allows you to pass the **implements** object to a function that expects an **IInspectable**.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
::IInspectable* find_inspectable() const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
The pointer to the [IInspectable](/windows/desktop/api/inspectable/nn-inspectable-iinspectable) interface implemented by the **implements** object.

## implements::find_interface function
Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier. Does not call **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
void* find_interface(winrt::guid const& id) const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
The pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier.

## implements::get_local_iids function
Retrieves a two-element tuple containing the identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object. ["Cloaked" interfaces](cloaked.md) aren't included.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
std::pair<uint32_t, const winrt::guid*> get_local_iids() const noexcept override;
```

### Return value
A two-element tuple containing the number and identifiers of the interfaces that are implemented by the **implements** object.

## implements::get_strong function
Retrieves a strong reference to the **winrt::implements** object's *this* pointer. See [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references). Because **get_strong** is a member function of the **winrt::implements** struct template, you can call it only from an object that directly or indirectly derives from **winrt::implements**, such as a C++/WinRT object. For more info about deriving from **winrt::implements**, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
protected:
    winrt::com_ptr<D> get_strong() noexcept;
```

### Return value
A strong reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.

## implements::get_weak function
Retrieves a weak reference to the **winrt::implements** object's *this* pointer. See [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references). Because **get_weak** is a member function of the **winrt::implements** struct template, you can call it only from an object that directly or indirectly derives from **winrt::implements**, such as a C++/WinRT object. For more info about deriving from **winrt::implements**, and examples, see [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis).

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
protected:
    winrt::weak_ref<D> get_weak() noexcept;
```

### Return value
A [**weak_ref**](weak-ref.md) object representing a weak reference to the **implements** object's *this* pointer.

## implements::QueryInterface function
Retrieves the pointer to the interface implemented by the **implements** object, identified by the specified identifier. Calls **AddRef** on the pointer that it returns.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
HRESULT __stdcall QueryInterface(winrt::guid const& id, void** object) noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::Release function
Decrements the reference count for the default interface of the **implements** object.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
unsigned long __stdcall Release() noexcept;
```

### Return value
The new reference count. This value is intended to be used only for test purposes.

## implements::operator Windows::Foundation::IInspectable
Converts the **implements** object to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**. This operator allows you to pass the **implements** object to a function that expects an **IInspectable**.

### Syntax
```cppwinrt
operator winrt::Windows::Foundation::IInspectable() const noexcept;
```

### Return value
The **implements** object converted to a **Windows::Foundation::IInspectable**.

## See also 
* [winrt namespace](winrt.md)
* [winrt::weak_ref struct template](weak-ref.md)
* [Author APIs with C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/author-apis)
* [Extension points for your implementation types](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/details-about-destructors)
* [Strong and weak references in C++/WinRT](/windows/uwp/cpp-and-winrt-apis/weak-references)
