winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/index.md, before:

---
title: Device Family Extension SDKs and API contracts
description: Lists the extension SDKs and their versions, with links to topics that list the API contracts associated with each extension SDK.
ms.assetid: 9C4F57CB-6E45-4B42-9852-67B0EFB63450




ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 6/4/2019
keywords: windows 10, uwp, extension sdk
---

# Device Family Extension SDKs and API contracts

The way of thinking about app-targeting changes with Windows 10. The new conceptual model is that UWP apps target the Universal device family by default, which provides a common API surface that works across a variety of devices. But you can also target the capabilities of specific devices by using an extension SDK. For more info on what a extension SDK is, and how to decide which one to target, see [Device families overview](device-families-overview.md).

This reference topic enumerates all of the extension SDKs with links to topics that list the contracts available in each extension.

## In this section

|  Topic                                                                                | Description                                                       |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [Device families overview](device-families-overview.md)                               | Overview of device families |
| [Universal device family API contracts](windows-universal-sdk.md)              | Lists the API contracts within the Universal device family |
| [Windows Desktop Extension SDK API contracts for UWP](windows-desktop-extension-sdk.md)   | Lists the API contracts within the Windows Desktop Extension SDK |
| [Windows Mobile Extension SDK API contracts for UWP](windows-mobile-extension-sdk.md) | Lists the API contracts within the Windows Mobile Extension SDK |
| [Windows IoT Extension SDK API contracts for UWP](windows-iot-extension-sdk.md)       | Lists the API contracts within the Windows Internet of Things Extension SDK |
| [Windows Team Extension SDK contracts for UWP](windows-team-extension-sdk.md)         | Lists the API contracts within the Windows Team Extension SDK |
| [Xbox Live Extension API contracts for UWP](xbox-live-extensions.md)                  | Lists the API contracts within the Xbox Live extension SDK |
| [UWP features not yet supported on Xbox](uwp-limitations-on-xbox.md)                  | Lists some of the feature areas that your UWP app might use that don’t currently function as fully on Xbox |

Commit message:

removing and refactoring this section (#165)
* removing and refactoring this section

* addressing pre-exising warnings

winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/index.md, after:

---
title: Device family extension SDKs and API contracts
description: Explains device families, extension SDKs, and API contracts; and lists UWP feature areas that don't function as fully on Xbox.
ms.assetid: 9C4F57CB-6E45-4B42-9852-67B0EFB63450
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 09/02/2020
keywords: windows 10, uwp, extension sdk
---

# Device family extension SDKs and API contracts

## Available extension SDKs

These are the names of the extension SDKs available for you to reference in Visual Studio.

- Windows Desktop Extensions for the UWP
- Windows IoT Extensions for the UWP
- Windows Mobile Extensions for the UWP
- Windows Team Extensions for the UWP

## In this section

| Topic | Description |
|-|-|
| [Programming with extension SDKs](/uwp/extension-sdks/device-families-overview) | An explanation of device families, extension SDKs, and API contracts, and how to program with them. |
| [UWP features not supported on Xbox](/uwp/extension-sdks/uwp-limitations-on-xbox) | Lists some of the feature areas that your UWP app might use that don't function as fully on Xbox. |
