winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/windows-iot-extension-sdk.md, before:

---
title: Windows IoT Extension SDK API contracts for UWP
description: See a list of all API contracts within the Windows Internet of Things Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform.
ms.assetid: 4d70dc2e-060a-4105-bce5-ec5c27171fce
ms.author: nichola
author: knicholasa


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 5/2/2018
keywords: windows 10, uwp, iot extension sdk, api contract
---
# Windows IoT Extension SDK API contracts for UWP

Lists all of the API contracts in the Windows Internet of Things (IoT) Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform (UWP).

> [!NOTE]
> We're thinking of removing this page. Did you find it useful? Please use one of the feedback tools at the bottom of the page to tell us why.

## Version 10.0.17763.0

In the October 2018 Update (version 10.0.17763.0) all IoT contracts were moved into the [Windows Universal SDK](windows-universal-sdk.md).

## Version 10.0.17134.1

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=5.0

## Version 10.0.16299.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=4.0

## Version 10.0.15063.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=3.0

## Version 10.0.14393.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 2.0

## Version 10.0.10586.0

Windows.Devices.DevicesLowLevelContract, version 2.0  
Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 2.0

## Version 10.0.10240.0

Windows.Devices.DevicesLowLevelContract, version 1.0
Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 1.0

Commit message:

Adding information about what is on these pages and a link to the overview

winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/windows-iot-extension-sdk.md, after:

---
title: Windows IoT Extension SDK API contracts for UWP
description: See a list of all API contracts within the Windows Internet of Things Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform.
ms.assetid: 4d70dc2e-060a-4105-bce5-ec5c27171fce
ms.author: nichola
author: knicholasa


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 5/2/2018
keywords: windows 10, uwp, iot extension sdk, api contract
---
# Windows IoT Extension SDK API contracts for UWP

The Windows SDK includes extension SDKs that let you call specialized APIs for different devices. To read more about this, check out the [Device families overview](device-families-overview.md) page.

This page contains a list of the API contracts in the Windows Internet of Things (IoT) Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform (UWP).

## Version 10.0.17763.0

In the October 2018 Update (version 10.0.17763.0) all IoT contracts were moved into the [Windows Universal SDK](windows-universal-sdk.md).

## Version 10.0.17134.1

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=5.0

## Version 10.0.16299.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=4.0

## Version 10.0.15063.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version=3.0

## Version 10.0.14393.0

Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 2.0

## Version 10.0.10586.0

Windows.Devices.DevicesLowLevelContract, version 2.0  
Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 2.0

## Version 10.0.10240.0

Windows.Devices.DevicesLowLevelContract, version 1.0
Windows.System.SystemManagementContract, version 1.0
