winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/windows-mobile-extension-sdk.md, before:

---
title: Windows Mobile Extension SDK API contracts for UWP
description: See a list of all API contracts within the Windows Mobile Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform.
ms.assetid: 3ADFCD07-CFD3-4C4D-90CA-32796771DEF7
ms.author: nichola
author: knicholasa


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 5/2/2018
keywords: windows 10, uwp, mobile extension sdk, api contract
---
# Windows Mobile Extension SDK API contracts for UWP

Lists all of the API contracts within the Windows Mobile Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform (UWP).

> [!NOTE]
> We're thinking of removing this page. Did you find it useful? Please use one of the feedback tools at the bottom of the page to tell us why.

## Version 10.0.17763.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=5.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=2.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0

## Version 10.0.17134.1

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version=4.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version=2.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version=3.0 
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneInternalContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version=3.0 
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version=4.0 
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=5.0.0.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0 
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=1.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0

## Version 10.0.16299.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract version=3.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract version=2.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract version=1.0
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract version=2.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract version=1.0
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract version=5.0
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract version=3.0
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract version=4.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract version=1.0
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract version=1.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract version=1.0

## Version 10.0.15063.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version=1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version=3.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version=2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version=3.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version=4.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version=2.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version=2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version=3.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=4.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0  

## Version 10.0.14393.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 3.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 3.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 3.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 3.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0  

## Version 10.0.10586.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.SocialInfo.SocialInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 2.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileHardwareTokenContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0  

## Version 10.0.10240.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsVoipContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.SocialInfo.SocialInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileHardwareTokenContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0

Commit message:

Adding information about what is on these pages and a link to the overview

winrt-related-src/extension-sdks/windows-mobile-extension-sdk.md, after:

---
title: Windows Mobile Extension SDK API contracts for UWP
description: See a list of all API contracts within the Windows Mobile Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform.
ms.assetid: 3ADFCD07-CFD3-4C4D-90CA-32796771DEF7
ms.author: nichola
author: knicholasa


ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 5/2/2018
keywords: windows 10, uwp, mobile extension sdk, api contract
---
# Windows Mobile Extension SDK API contracts for UWP

The Windows SDK includes extension SDKs that let you call specialized APIs for different devices. To read more about this, check out the [Device families overview](device-families-overview.md) page.

This page contains a list of all of the API contracts within the Windows Mobile Extension SDK for the Universal Windows Platform (UWP).

## Version 10.0.17763.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=5.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=2.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0

## Version 10.0.17134.1

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version=4.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version=2.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version=3.0 
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneInternalContract, version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version=3.0 
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version=4.0 
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=5.0.0.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0 
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=1.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0

## Version 10.0.16299.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract version=1.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract version=3.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract version=2.0
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract version=1.0
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract version=1.0
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract version=2.0
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract version=1.0
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract version=2.0
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract version=1.0
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract version=1.0
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract version=5.0
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract version=3.0
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract version=4.0
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract version=1.0
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract version=1.0
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract version=1.0

## Version 10.0.15063.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version=1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version=1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version=3.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version=2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version=3.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version=4.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version=2.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version=1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version=2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version=3.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version=4.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version=1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version=1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version=1.0  

## Version 10.0.14393.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 3.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 3.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 3.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 3.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0  

## Version 10.0.10586.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.Background.CallsBackgroundContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 2.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.SocialInfo.SocialInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 2.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 2.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileHardwareTokenContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0  

## Version 10.0.10240.0

Windows.ApplicationModel.Activation.WebUISearchActivatedEventsContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsPhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Calls.CallsVoipContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.SocialInfo.SocialInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.CommunicationBlocking.CommunicationBlockingContract, version 1.0  
Windows.ApplicationModel.Wallet.WalletContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardBackgroundTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Devices.SmartCards.SmartCardEmulatorContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Embedded.DeviceLockdown.DeviceLockdownContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Gaming.Preview.GamesEnumerationContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.NetworkOperators.NetworkOperatorsFdnContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Networking.Sockets.ControlChannelTriggerContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.PhoneContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Phone.StartScreen.DualSimTileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.GuidanceContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Services.Maps.LocalSearchContract, version 1.0  
Windows.Security.EnterpriseData.EnterpriseDataContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileHardwareTokenContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.Profile.ProfileRetailInfoContract, version 1.0  
Windows.System.UserProfile.UserProfileContract, version 1.0  
Windows.UI.WebUI.Core.WebUICommandBarContract, version 1.0
