winrt-related-src/index.md, before:

---
layout: LandingPage
---
# API reference for Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps

The Universal Windows Platform (UWP) introduces a common API that you can use to deliver unique and personal app experiences on all devices that run Windows 10. Learn about the APIs for developing Universal Windows apps for Windows 10, or learn about the main programming languages from which you can call Windows APIs.

<ul class="panelContent cardsFTitle">
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/api">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api-reference.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Windows UWP namespaces</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt691886.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api-reference.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Microsoft Store Services SDK</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt185501.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/logos/logo_NET.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>.NET APIs for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/extension-sdks">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_article.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Extension SDKs and API contracts</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/schemas">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Schema specifications for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt592904.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/logos/logo_Win32-COM.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Win32 and COM APIs for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
</ul>

---

<h2>Related</h2>
<ul class="panelContent cardsW">
    <li>
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Languages</h3>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh699871.aspx">Visual C++ language reference (C++/CX)</a></p>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/jj613794.aspx">JavaScript reference</a></p>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </li>
    <li>
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Other versions and related app types</h3>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/xaml/mt244353.aspx">Windows Runtime 8.x apps (Windows 8)</a></p>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/xaml/ff402535(v=vs.105).aspx">Windows Phone Silverlight 8 apps</a></p>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </li>
</ul>

Commit message:

Metadata additions for index page

winrt-related-src/index.md, after:

---
layout: LandingPage
title: API reference for Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps
description: Learn about the APIs for developing UWP apps for Windows 10, or learn about the main programming languages from which you can call Windows APIs.
ms.author: markl
ms.prod: windows
ms.topic: landing-page
ms.date: 04/05/2017
---

# API reference for Universal Windows Platform (UWP) apps

The Universal Windows Platform (UWP) introduces a common API that you can use to deliver unique and personal app experiences on all devices that run Windows 10. Learn about the APIs for developing Universal Windows apps for Windows 10, or learn about the main programming languages from which you can call Windows APIs.

<ul class="panelContent cardsFTitle">
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/api">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api-reference.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Windows UWP namespaces</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt691886.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api-reference.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Microsoft Store Services SDK</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt185501.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/logos/logo_NET.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>.NET APIs for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/extension-sdks">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_article.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Extension SDKs and API contracts</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="/uwp/schemas">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/common/i_api.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Schema specifications for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
    <li>
        <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/mt592904.aspx">
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardImageOuter">
                        <div class="cardImage">
                            <img src="/media/logos/logo_Win32-COM.svg" alt="" />
                        </div>
                    </div>
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Win32 and COM APIs for UWP apps</h3>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </a>
    </li>
</ul>

---

<h2>Related</h2>
<ul class="panelContent cardsW">
    <li>
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Languages</h3>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/hh699871.aspx">Visual C++ language reference (C++/CX)</a></p>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/jj613794.aspx">JavaScript reference</a></p>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </li>
    <li>
        <div class="cardSize">
            <div class="cardPadding">
                <div class="card">
                    <div class="cardText">
                        <h3>Other versions and related app types</h3>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/xaml/mt244353.aspx">Windows Runtime 8.x apps (Windows 8)</a></p>
                        <p><a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/apps/xaml/ff402535(v=vs.105).aspx">Windows Phone Silverlight 8 apps</a></p>
                    </div>
                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
    </li>
</ul>
